---
title: Eric Gartzke
---

# 1999. *War is the Error Term*

Drawing on Fearon's (1995) seminal article, Gartzke claims that causes
of war are stochastic (random) because given the uncertainty and the
incentives to misrepresent private information, there are no factors
that can predict war over any other factors. War is, in his terms,
*literally the error term* of statistical methods. Explanations for
war are like layers, with each layer only partially revealing the
what's beneath. IR began as focusing on power and capabilities (i.e.,
neorealism), then focused on interaction and preferences, before
finally coming to Fearon's inefficiency puzzle. A beautiful summary of
the field of conflict studies. Gartzke summaries Fearon as such:
Fearon offers three possible explanations: first, that states have
incentive to misrepresent private information; second, that states
cannot solve the commitment problem; and third, states have some
issues that are indivisible. After rejecting the third possibility as
unlikely, Fearon shows how the first two are the most likely. Gartzke
explains that the commitment problem cannot play a significant role
because it would imply that no states, once war began, would cease
unless they complete exhausted their resources. We are left with power
and preferences which is all the more puzzling because since, as
Fearon showed, war is always more costly *ex ante* than some
bargain. That states choose war suggests that the final proximate
cause is always unobserved.

# 2001. 
