---
title: Robert Jervis
--- 

# 1976. *Perception and Misperception in International Relations*



# 1978. *Cooperation and the Security Dilemma*

Anarchy creates several challenges for cooperation on security issues
for states that can all be understood under the rubric of the security
dilemma. Namely, that an increase of security for one state may
unintentionally decrease the security for another state. Two
categories of problems contribute to the security dilemma and the
overall sense of stability between any two competitor-nations: (1) can
offense weapons be distinguished from defenses weapons; (2) does
offense or defense have the advantage? From these basic questions,
Jervis creates the well known 2x2 wherein we have four worlds: no
distinction between office and defense and offense has the advantage
[double dangerous], a distinction is known but offense has the
advantage [peaceful but an attack is possible], no distinction but a
defensive advantage [a state of caution but relatively ok], and both a
distinction and a defensive advantage [double safety]. 

# 2009. *International Politics and Diplomatic History: Fruitful
Differences*

Political science and diplomatic history differ in at least three
ways: (1) historians privilege chronology while political scientists
prioritize causal knowledge; (2) Political scientists rely on
comparative analysis---via large-n, or case studies---while historians
explain individual events; (3) historians are more confident, on
balance, to make moral judgments regarding the behavior and actions of
others. These differences are often unbridgeable insofar as the
questions and methods of the two are unique to each field even as they
both study the same subject area: international relations. But we
should embrace these differences and seek to understand what each
brings to bear on social inquiry because there is much to be gained
from doing so. 
