---
title: Layna Mosley
--- 

# 2000. "Room to Move"

The influence of international financial markets on advanced
democracies is strong but narrow. Governments do face pressures to
please markets when creating policy but still maintain "room to move"
because of the economizing forces placed on investors as global
finance widens. As a cognitive short-cut, fund mangers look mainly to
beat the average of other investors and as a result pay closer
attention to market wide indicators like macropolicy *outcomes* rather
than specific policy outputs. In other words, the race to the bottom
logic may not be as strong as previously thought. 

# 2007. "Climb to the top" 

Although trade openness is associated negatively with labor rights,
reinforcing some aspects of the RTB logic, Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI) is positively correlated with labor rights protections
suggesting a "climb to the top" logic to attract investment. Three
causal pathways are proposed and investigated: (1) MNCs may urge
governments to improve the rule of law, protect the vulnerable, and
enhance social security; (2) FDI may promote a transfer of best
practices; (3) direct investors may be concerned with the quality of
the labor, not merely the cost. Two main causal pathways are proposed
for the RTB logic of of trade openness: Labor is politically weak and
higher national debt subjects governments to stronger market forces. 

# 2008. "Taking stock seriously"

Equity investors are becoming an increasingly influential force in the
global economy but their preferences diverge from other investors in
important ways suggesting that researchers disaggregate their studies
of financial markets according to the investment type. The reason for
doing so is that since different investment sectors will respond
differently to the same policy outcome, market-sensitive governments
could respond differently than our expectations, leading to the
production of errant-knowledge (my conclusion, not hers). In some
ways, this is echoed by Oatley's criticism of OEP's reductionist
gamble. But where Oatley thinks we ought pay attention to
macro-processes, Mosley and Singer seem to be hinting at an even more
granular level of analysis than where OEP current practices rest. 

# 2009. Lessons from the global financial crisis

Post-crisis, we might expect to see new lines of research in the
following areas: Domestic financial regulation (if the barriers to
entry for scholars can be overcome), emergent patterns on global
governance and the shift from G7 to G20, and the role of private
actors in the policy making process. In each of these areas, M&S
suggest potential research questions and methods. It is worth noting
that they believe both large-n and small-n studies are needed,
especially in the world of finance regulation as new scholars find
ways to build and test new theories for IPE. 
